So my name is Stefan Martin.
I'm a 6 to 8 math teacher,
here at Port Elgin Regional School.
I've also done a little bit of work
as the acting vice principal,
over the past year.
And I'm here to talk to you
about the data wall that we use.
And we use it for two purposes.
Number one, the purpose of the data wall
is school wide, so it's run K to eight.
We're K-8 school.
And then our middle school team
has serves a secondary purpose
with it for our PBL.
So the data wall itself
is just an Excel spreadsheet,
with a tab for each of our grades.
And on that sheet
is a list of the students, that we have.
And essentially
it's their learner profile.
So all of the information
about the number of students
that are enrolled in CNY,
the students that are in foster care,
the students that are on our meal program,
Plps, students that require
additional support
might be seeing the guidance
counselor might be receiving tier
two interventions from her ASD.
All that information
is just there in a checklist,
something that's really easy to read
and really easy for a teacher to look at
and just get a snapshot.
The other pieces that are
there are our report card
rates for literacy and numeracy,
because those are direct,
reflections of our CIPs.
As well as our district improvement
goals, things that we're working really
heavily on is reading,
writing and numeracy.
So we wanted to track that data
from the report cards.
And the other piece is the screener data.
So whether it's district screener
or diagnostic in-house screener
or diagnostic assessments, all those
assessments go into this tracker.
So essentially in a nutshell,
it's a one stop snapshot
of what does that class look like
as a whole.
in essence,
if I were to go out
for an extended period of time,
could I supply teacher, come in,
take a look at that profile
and gain a good understanding of these
are the students that are in front of me.
This is the reality that they live.
And these are the challenges
that they're facing.
These are the things I'm going
to need to keep in mind.
This is the reality.
So, that's kind of the, the, the essence
of what it is and what it looks like.
The way it's used is that at
PLC meetings, at s meetings,
the profile, is always accessible.
So we have that information
at our fingertips after reporting periods.
After screener periods,
we'll take a look at the profile
and see how classes stack up.
See how k to two out of 3 or 5, 6 to 8,
how those different, cohorts of kids,
stack up in terms of our results.
So we might compare report card grades.
We might see how many students are at a
three at a
two versus provincial assessments,
how many students are at a three at a two.
So we can kind of see our,
our results there.
We can look at our teacher efficacy.
We can look at our assessment
models, and see are we on track.
It's just a way of tracking that necessary
data to be an accountable school,
a functional school in a school that's
using its data because there's nothing
like if you use the data, there's no point
keeping it.
So for me, the classroom
profile was a way of collecting data
that's commonly stored in several files.
Maybe it's stored in an Excel file, maybe
it's in the cloud, maybe it's by hand.
So it was a way of
consolidating information
and having it ready at your fingertips.
What I've learned through this process
really is that,
I created the Excel file, but
I had very little understanding of Excel.
I've just always enjoyed the program
because it's very easy.
It's very functional.
So I did do a lot of learning, of Excel.
So if somebody were to create
that profile,
for their own school, whatever medium
you use, if it's Excel or something else,
being
open to learning that profile or that,
that medium, being open to asking for help
because I've, I've had to ask for help
a lot of times, for Excel.
That's been a huge, a huge piece
because a lot of the teachers
will come to me and say, well,
how do I code this?
How do I make this turn yellow?
How do I make this turn blue?
I have this test.
I have the screener that I want
in my classroom profile.
How do I make it do this
so that I don't have to spend hours
and hours coding it myself?
So I've been trying to answer all
those questions for the teachers as well.
So having that kind of understanding
of the medium is really important.
My next step with this is kind of,
I'm always I'm always cognizant
of the tracker in the way that I don't
want it to overload teachers because
having too
much data is also as devastating
as having not enough data,
because if you're not going to analyze it,
there's no point.
So if the trackers overburdened with data,
if we have too much,
it's not going to serve its purpose.
So I'm always aware of what we're tracking
and asking.
PLC is asking teachers on a regular basis
do you need this data?
Do you even want this
on the classroom profile?
If not, we'll get rid of it.
And then asking them also,
what are the things that you would like
on the classroom profile?
An example for me is I'm, I'm currently,
thinking of ways
to kind of track the math results
as the math teacher
after the students leave our school
in, in high school.
So one of the measures I'm interested in
is seeing how many students are self
streaming them out,
of like higher level math.
How many students get to grade 11 and say,
no, I don't think I'm ready for calculus,
or I don't want to take calculus
or pre-calculus, for example.
So I'm interested to see how many students
are not enrolling
in those precalculus courses to see,
oh, are they not doing that
because they're not interested in math?
Or is it
because they don't feel ready for math?
Because those are things
that we can address
at a middle school level,
both the preparedness and the interest.
And that's just kind of one measure.
So looking at the data of the kids
when they leave, and how do we
then track that data
so that we can intervene earlier?
Because at the end of it,
the the main goal is to have
a student in kindergarten eight years
later have eight years of data.
We can see the trends,
we can see the spikes.
We can see the the highs, the lows.
We can see who they were
and when and if something's
going wrong in high school,
if they're not on track to graduate.
We can have a look back at their
their profile and say,
we should have intervened here.
We should have done this here so that
the next time we can we can do that.
It's all about kind of understanding
our learners and, using the data
that we all know and the data
that we all have and making it easy.